				Module 5:Storage and databases

Instance Stores and Amazon Elastic Block Storage (EBS)
An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for an EC2 instance. Is disk storage that is physically attached to the host computer with the following characteristics:
— HDD options
— Solid-state
— Size up to 16 TiB
2. Amazon Elastic Block Storage (EBS): provides block-level storage volumes that you can use with EC2 instances. Because EBS volumes are for data that needs to persist, it’s important to back up the data (snapshots).

**EBS snapshot is an incremental backup

3. Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)

When you modify a file in block storage, only the pieces that are changed are updated. When a file in object storage is modified, the entire object is updated

Nine 9’s of durability

S3 provides object-level storage, offers unlimited storage space, the maximum file size for an object is 5TB.

* You can set permissions to control visibility and access to it.
* You can also use the versioning feature to track changes to your objects over time.
* With S3 you only pay for what you use, you can choose from a range of storage classes to select a fit, you will consider two factors: How often you plan to retrieve your data and How available you need your data to be.

* S3 storage classes:
a) S3 standard: provides high availability for objects, it has a higher cost
— Designed for frequently accessed data.
— Store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones.

b) S3 Zone-Infrequent Access (Zone-IA): ideal for infrequently accessed but requires high availability when needed. The same level of availability as the S3 standard but with a lower storage price.
— Ideal for infrequently accessed data.
— Similar to the S3 standard but lower storage price and higher retrieval price.

c) S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (One Zone-IA)
— Store data in a single availability zone.
— Lower storage price than S3 Standard-IA.

d) S3 Intelligent-Tiering:
— Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns.
— Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object.

e) S3 Glacier:
— Low-cost storage designed for data archiving.
— Able to retrieve objects within a few minutes to hours.

f) S3 Glacier Deep Archive:
— Lowest-cost object storage class, ideal for archiving.
— Able to retrieve objects within 12 hours.

4. Amazon Elastic File System (EFS)

File Storage, multiple clients can access data that is stored in shared file folders. In this approach, a storage server uses block storage with a local file system to organize files. Compared to block storage and object storage, file storage is ideal for use cases in which a large number of services and resources need to access the same data at the same time.
Amazon EFS is a scalable file system used with AWS Cloud Services and On-premise resources.
5. Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)

RDS enables you to run relational databases in the AWS Cloud Managed services that automate tasks such as:
a) Hardware provisioning
b) Database setup
c) Patching
d) Backups
Database Engines:
a) PostgreSQL
b) MySQL
c) Maria DB
d) Oracle
e) Microsoft SQL Server
f) Amazon Aurora:
— Compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL.
— Five times faster than MySQL and three times faster than PostgreSQL.
— Reduce unnecessary I/O operations.
— Replicates six copies of your data across three availability zones.
— Continuously backs up your data.