1.What is cloud computing?

A.Backing up files that are stored on desktop and mobile devices to prevent data loss

B.Deploying applications connected to on-premises infrastructure

C.Running code without needing to manage or provision servers

D.On-demand delivery of IT resources and applications through the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing

ANSWER: D

2.What is another name for on-premises deployment?

A.Private cloud deployment

B.Cloud-based application

C.Hybrid deployment

D.AWS Cloud

ANSWER:A

3.How does the scale of cloud computing help you to save costs?

A.You do not have to invest in technology resources before using them.

B.The aggregated cloud usage from a large number of customers results in lower pay-as-you-go prices.

C.Accessing services on-demand helps to prevent excess or limited capacity.

D.You can quickly deploy applications to customers and provide them with low latency.

ANSWER:B

4.How does the scale of cloud computing help you to save costs?

A.You do not have to invest in technology resources before using them.

B.The aggregated cloud usage from a large number of customers results in lower pay-as-you-go prices.

C.Accessing services on-demand helps to prevent excess or limited capacity.

D.You can quickly deploy applications to customers and provide them with low latency.

ANSWER:B

5.What are the contract length options for Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances? (Select TWO.)

A.1 year

B.2 years

C.3 years

D.4 years

E.5 years

ANSWER:A AND C

6.You have a workload that will run for a total of 6 months and can withstand interruptions. What would be the most cost-efficient Amazon EC2 purchasing option?

A.Reserved Instance

B.Spot Instance

C.Dedicated Instance

D.On-Demand Instance

ANSWER:B

7.Which process is an example of Elastic Load Balancing?

A.Ensuring that no single Amazon EC2 instance has to carry the full workload on its own

B.Removing unneeded Amazon EC2 instances when demand is low

C.Adding a second Amazon EC2 instance during an online store’s popular scale
D.Automatically adjusting the number of Amazon EC2 instances to meet demand

ANSWER:A

8.You want to deploy and manage containerized applications. Which service should you use?

A.AWS Lambda

B.Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)

,C.Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)

D.Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)

ANSWER:D

9.Your company has an application that uses Amazon EC2 instances to run the customer-facing website and Amazon RDS database instances to store customers’ personal information. How should the developer configure the VPC according to best practices?

A.Place the Amazon EC2 instances in a private subnet and the Amazon RDS database instances in a public subnet.
B.Place the Amazon EC2 instances in a public subnet and the Amazon RDS database instances in a private subnet.
C.Place the Amazon EC2 instances and the Amazon RDS database instances in a public subnet.
D.Place the Amazon EC2 instances and the Amazon RDS database instances in a private subnet.

ANSWER: B

10.Which component or service can be used to establish a private dedicated connection between your company’s data center and AWS?

A.Private subnet
B.DNS
C.AWS Direct Connect
D.Amazon CloudFront

ANSWER:C

11.Which statement best describes security groups?

A.They are stateful and deny all inbound traffic by default.

B.They are stateful and allow all inbound traffic by default.

C.They are stateless and deny all inbound traffic by default.

D.They are stateless and allow all inbound traffic by default.

ANSWER:A

12.Which component is used to connect a VPC to the internet?

A.Public subnet

B.Edge location

C.Security group

D.Internet gateway

ANSWER:D

13.Which service is used to manage the DNS records for domain names?

A.Amazon Virtual Private Cloud

B.AWS Direct Connect

C.Amazon CloudFront

D.Amazon Route 53

ANSWEWR:D

14.Which Amazon S3 storage classes are optimized for archival data? (Select TWO.)

A.S3 Standard

B.S3 Glacier

C.S3 Intelligent-Tiering

D.S3 Standard-IA

E.S3 Glacier Deep Archive

ANSWER:B AND E

15.Which statement or statements are TRUE about Amazon EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems?

A.EBS volumes store data within a single Availability Zone. Amazon EFS file systems store data across multiple Availability Zones.

B.EBS volumes store data across multiple Availability Zones. Amazon EFS file systems store data within a single Availability Zone.

C.EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems both store data within a single Availability Zone.

D.EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems both store data across multiple Availability Zones.

ANSWER:A

16.You want to store data in an object storage service. Which AWS service is best for this type of storage?

A.Amazon Managed Blockchain

B.Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)

C.Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)

D.Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)

ANSWER:D

17.Which statement best describes Amazon DynamoDB?

A.A service that enables you to run relational databases in the AWS Cloud

B.A serverless key-value database service

C.A service that you can use to migrate relational databases, nonrelational databases, and other types of data stores

D.An enterprise-class relational database

ANSWER:B

18.Which service is used to query and analyze data across a data warehouse?

A.Amazon Redshift

B.Amazon Neptune

C.Amazon DocumentDB

D.Amazon ElastiCache

ANSWER:A

19.Which statement best describes an IAM policy?

A.An authentication process that provides an extra layer of protection for your AWS account

B.A document that grants or denies permissions to AWS services and resources

C.An identity that you can assume to gain temporary access to permissions

D.The identity that is established when you first create an AWS account

ANSWER:B

20.An employee requires temporary access to create several Amazon S3 buckets. Which option would be the best choice for this task?

A.AWS account root user

B.IAM group

C.IAM role

D.Service control policy (SCP)

ANSWER:C

21.Which statement best describes the principle of least privilege?

A.Adding an IAM user into at least one IAM group

B.Checking a packet’s permissions against an access control list

C.Granting only the permissions that are needed to perform specific tasks

D.Performing a denial of service attack that originates from at least one device

ANSWER:C

22.Which service helps protect your applications against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks?

A.Amazon GuardDuty

B.Amazon Inspector

C.AWS Artifact

D.AWS Shield

ANSWER:D

23.Which task can AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) perform?

A.Configure multi-factor authentication (MFA).

B.Update the AWS account root user password.

C.Create cryptographic keys.

D.Assign permissions to users and groups.

ANSWER:C

24.Which actions can you perform using Amazon CloudWatch? (Select TWO.)

A.Monitor your resources’ utilization and performance

B.Receive real-time guidance for improving your AWS environment

C.Compare your infrastructure to AWS best practices in five categories

D.Access metrics from a single dashboard

E.Automatically detect unusual account activity

ANSWER:A AND D

25.Which service enables you to review the security of your Amazon S3 buckets by checking for open access permissions?

A.Amazon CloudWatch

B.AWS CloudTrail

C.AWS Trusted Advisor

D.Amazon GuardDuty

ANSWER:C

26.Which categories are included in the AWS Trusted Advisor dashboard? (Select TWO.)

A.Reliability

B.Performance

C.Scalability

D.Elasticity

E.Fault tolerance

ANSWER:B AND E

27.Which action can you perform with consolidated billing?

A.Review how much cost your predicted AWS usage will incur by the end of the month.

B.Create an estimate for the cost of your use cases on AWS.

C.Combine usage across accounts to receive volume pricing discounts.

D.Visualize and manage your AWS costs and usage over time.

ANSWER:C

28.Which pricing tool is used to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time?

A.AWS Pricing Calculator

B.AWS Budgets

C.AWS Cost Explorer

D.AWS Free Tier

ANSWER:C

29.Which pricing tool enables you to receive alerts when your service usage exceeds a threshold that you have defined?

A.Billing dashboard in the AWS Management Console

B.AWS Budgets

C.AWS Free Tier

D.AWS Cost Explorer

ANSWER:B

30.Your company wants to receive support from an AWS Technical Account Manager (TAM). Which support plan should you choose?

A.Developer

B.Enterprise

C.Basic

D.Business

ANSWER:B

31.Which service or resource is used to find third-party software that runs on AWS?

A.AWS Marketplace

B.AWS Free Tier

C.AWS Support

D.Billing dashboard in the AWS Management Console

ANSWER:A

32.What is the storage capacity of AWS Snowmobile?

A.40 PB

B.60 PB

C.80 PB

D.100 PB

ANSWER:D

33.Which pillar of the AWS Well-Architected Framework includes the ability to run workloads effectively and gain insights into their operations?

A.Cost Optimization

B.Operational Excellence

C.Performance Efficiency

D.Reliability

ANSWER:B

34.What are the benefits of cloud computing? (Select TWO.)

A.Increase speed and agility.

B.Benefit from smaller economies of scale.

C.Trade variable expense for upfront expense.

D.Maintain infrastructure capacity.

E.Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers.

ANSWER: A AND E

35.Which service enables you to review details for user activities and API calls that have occurred within your AWS environment?


A.Amazon CloudWatch

B.AWS CloudTrail

C.AWS Trusted Advisor

D.Amazon Inspector

ANSWER:B